#summary Database notes (how it might be used)

==Ingredient Questions==

*PersonWithQuestion:*  Do you know how many types of vax in the childhood schedule do NOT have aluminum?

*me:*  let me check...

*PersonWithQuestion:*  I think rotavirus is one

*me:*  No alum: RV, polio, flu, MMR, varicella, MCV (meningococcal)
Might say Hib, too, since PedVaxHib has been recalled (per FDA website)...  2 out of 3 Hib vaccines have no alum

*PersonWithQuestion:*  Thx!  Is Pediarix the highest with 850mcg?

*me:*  Another way of looking at it is across ALL vaccines and ALL schedules, alum is found in approx 40% of vaccines<br><br>
 
*PersonWithQuestion*  Or is it Pentacel?

*me:*  Pediarix has 850 mcg of alum

*PersonWithQuestion:*  That is DTaP, HepB and Hib?

*me:*  No - DTaP, HepB and polio
By doing individual shots of DTaP, HepB and polio, one can reduce alum exposure to 420 mcg
But you'd need to request specific brands of vaccines (or else the number easily jumps up 50%)

*PersonWithQuestion:*  Thx.  Will check in later

*PersonWithQuestion:*  What's the range of Al dose?  With 850 being the highest.

*me:*  125 in Prevnar
you'll find a wide range in-between -- no clear/obvious pattern

==Ingredient Stats==

50.9% of the full CDC schedule contains formaldehyde<BR>
29.8% of the full CDC schedule contains thimerosal<BR>
40.4% of the full CDC schedule contains aluminum<BR>
19.3% of the full CDC schedule contains polysorbate 80<BR>

"contains" includes "trace" amounts - let me know if you think these
kind of stats are interesting and, if so, what other ones you'd like
to see.  I'm going to have all of this info in a database and we'll be
able to get all kinds of fascinating data

the more you can challenge me for data, the better our database will
be.   A challenge might be something like showing the thimerosal
numbers broken down into trace amounts and what "types" of
vaccines tend to have thimerosal (type = flu, DTaP, etc)

I like the thimerosal challenge piece.  Can it be applied to aluminum speciation and poly 80?